What is plagiarism?
Plagiarism is the use, whether by paraphrase or direct quotation, of another’s published or unpublished work without full and clear acknowledgment. Direct quotes with a clear acknowledgment are usually appropriate if not overused but copying another’s work word for word outside of a direct quotation, even with acknowledgment, is likely to be considered plagiarism. Plagiarism is often unintentional. SNHU’s Academic Integrity Policy This link opens in a new window provides more information on SNHU’s definition of plagiarism.

What is a plagiarism checker?
Plagiarism checkers are software that can be used to cross-check text for duplicated content (this may include quoted material, paraphrased material, similarities in wording, etc.). These tools help to ensure that writing is original and correctly cited.

Where can I find a plagiarism detector?
We do not recommend any of the free plagiarism detectors that you find with a Google search.  The quality is unreliable and some of them are phishing sites.

What options do I have?
Turnitin This link opens in a new window is a plagiarism prevention system used by faculty at SNHU. If Turnitin is being used in a course, a student submits a paper and Turnitin checks it for plagiarism against content on the web, other student papers, and selected online library databases. Your instructor will see the Turnitin report for assignments along with your submission, and can provide you with a copy at your request. Please reach out to your instructor directly if you have any questions about how Turnitin is used in your course. 
A simple Google search can often detect plagiarism. Instructors often put a sentence or two of a student's paper into Google to see if there are any close matches.
More Information
Submit your paper for written feedback. Our Academic Support team offers a service where they will provide written feedback based on the area of support you request. Please allow 12 hours turnaround time. While Academic Support cannot run your paper through plagiarism checking software such as Turnitin ahead of submission, our team can help you build strategies to avoid plagiarism and properly cite your work. To do this, check the box asking for citation support when you upload your paper. Academic Support's video on written feedback This link opens in a new window has more information. 
How to Lower your Turnitin Score This link opens in a new window (SNHU Academic Support)